Stäubli will showcase a variety of products this week in Anaheim at ATX West (booth #4461) — including its new TX2 line of collaborative robots. Stäubli offers a complete range of dynamic robots for challenging industrial environments including life sciences, medical, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, food, electronics, semiconductors, cleanrooms and laboratories.
Stäubli Robotics will simulate a realistic Smart Factory with multiple TX2 models and interlinked cells to demonstrate their Industry 4.0 compatibility and collaborative nature. A sensitive environment display using the TX90 HE robot, developed specifically for processes in wet environments, will demonstrate food washing and waterjet cutting.
In addition, Stäubli will demonstrate medical assembly with Calvary Robotics’ X-Cell product line using the TX60L. Calvary Robotics’ X-Cell Robotic Assembly Platform aims at providing standardized, scalable, re-deployable robotics at a wide range of products, parts, assemblies and processes across numerous industries.
CAID Automation (booth #4550) will feature the FAST picker TP80, an extremely fast robot that is capable of sustaining 200 picks per minute. CAID Automation has extensive experience designing, fabricating and erecting a large variety of industrial and commercial projects, including industrial plant work, architectural features, structural trusses, repetitive manufacturing, mining support technologies, processing plants, municipal art and R&D rapid prototyping.
“The incredible performance and versatility of the new TX2 line allows it to be incorporated in a wide variety of scenarios to improve efficiency, safety and the quality of manufactured goods,” said Roger Varin, CEO, Stäubli North America.
With the launch of the TX2 series and CS9 safety control, Stäubli has opened a new chapter in man-robot collaboration. The six-axis robots have a separate safe digital encoder for each axis and an integrated safety board. All safety features comply with the stringent requirements of the highest safety category, SIL3/PLe.
Stäubli offers the world’s widest range of robots in special versions and is the undisputed market leader in this segment. Additional products such as HE, Cleanroom, Super Cleanroom, ESD and Stericlean designate special versions, which deliver the same high level of performance that has come to be expected of the standard models.
Visit Stäubli at booth #4461 for the latest innovations from Stäubli Robotics and see how clean, consistent, high-performance technologies can help protect people, production and investments.
Stäubli North America has over 200 employees supporting Textiles, Connectors and Robotics customers. The company’s North American headquarters is located in Duncan, S.C., and the sales force is strategically placed on the West Coast, Canada, Mexico and elsewhere throughout the continent.
Stäubli is a leading manufacturer of textile machinery, quick release couplings and robotics systems. With a workforce of over 4,500 employees Stäubli is present in 25 countries supported by a comprehensive distribution network in 50 countries worldwide. For more information, visit www.staubli.us.